# S3 101
## What is S3?

S3 provides developers and IT teams with secure, durable, highly-scalable object storage. Amazon S3 is easy to use, with a simple web service interface to store and retrieve any amount of data from anywhere on the web.

## Basics

- S3 is a safe place to store your files.
- It is object-based storage. (allows you to upload files)
- The data is spread across multiple devices and facilities.
- Files can be from 0 bytes to 5 TB.
- There is unlimited storage.
- Files are stored in Buckets.
- S3 is a universal namespace. That is, names must be unique globally.
- When you upload a file to S3, you will receive a **http 200 code** if the upload was successful.

## Objects

- Key. (this is simply thename of the object)
- Value. (this is simply te data and is made up of a sequences of bytes)
- Version ID. (important for versioning)
- Metadata. (data about data you are storing)
- Subresources:
	- Access control lists.
	- Torrent.

## How does data consistency work for S3?

- Read after write consistency for PUTS of new objects.
- Eventual consistency for overwrite PUTS and DELETES. (can take some time to prepagate)

#### In other words:

- If you write a new file and read it immediately afterwards, you will be able to view the data.
- If you update **AN EXISTING FILE** or delete a file and read it immediately, you may get the older version, or you may not. Basically changes to objects can take a little bit of time to propagate.

## Guarantees

- Built for 99.99% availability for the S3 platform.
- Amazon guarantee 99.99% availability.
- Amazon guarantee 99.99% durability for S3 information. (remember 11 x 9s)

## Features

- Tiered storage available.
- Lifecycle management.
- Versioning.
- Encryption.
- MFA Delete. (deliting objects)
- Secure your data using **Access Control Lists** and **Bucket Policies**.

## Classes of S3

- Standard: (99.99% availability and 99.99% durability) Stored redundantly across multiple devices in multiple facilities, and is designed to sustain the loss of two facilities concurrently.
- IA: (infrequently accessed) For data that is accessed less frequently, but requires rapid access when needed. Lower fee than S3, but you are changed a retrieval fee.
- One Zone IA: For where you want a lower-cost option for infrequently accessed data, but do not require the multiple Availability Zone data resilience.
- Intelligent Tiering: Designed to optimize costs by automatically moving data to the most cost-effective access tier, without performance impact or operational overhead.
- Glacier: Is a secure, durable, and low-cost storage class for data archiving. You can reliably store any amount of data at costs that are competitive with or cheaper than on-premises solutions. Retrieval times configurable from minutes to hours.
- Glacier Deep Archive: Is Amazon S3's lowest-cost storage class where a retrieval time of 12 hours is acceptable.

## Charges

- Storage.
- Requests.
- Storage management pricing.
- Data transfer pricing.
- Transfer acceleration.
- Cross region replication pricing.

## Transfer acceleration

- Amazon S3 transfer acceleration enables fast, easy, and secure transfers of files over long distances between your end users and an S3 bucket.
- Transfer acceleration takes advantage o Amazon CloudFront's globally distributed edge locations. As the data arrives at an edge location, data is routed to Amazon S3 over an optimized network path.