# EC2 101
## What is it?

Amazon Elastic Compute Cloud (Amazon EC2) is a web service that provides resizable compute capacity in the cloud. Amazon EC2 reduces the time required to obtain and boot new server instances to minutes, allowing you to quickly scale capacity, both up and down, as your computing requirements change.

## Types
#### On demand:

Allows you to pay a fixed rate by the hour (or by the second) with no commitment.

- Is useful for:
	- Users that want the low cost and flexibility of Amazon EC2 without any up-front payment or long-term commitment.
	- Applications with short term, spiky, or unpredictable workloads that can not be interrupted.
	- Applications being developed or tested on Amazon EC2 for the first time.

#### Reserved:

Provides you with a capacity reservation, and offer a significant discount on the hourly charge for an instance. Contract Terms are 1 Year or 3 Years Terms.

- Is useful for:
	- Applications with steady state or predictable usage.
	- Applications that require reserved capacity.
	- Users able to make upfront payments to reduce their total computing costs even further.

- Subtypes:
	- **Standard reserved instances**: These offer up to 75% off on demand instances. The more you pay upfront an the longer the contract, the greater the discount.
	- **Convertible reserved instances**: These offer up to 54% off on demand capability to change the attributes of the RI as long as the exchange results in the creation of RI of equal or greater value.
	- **Scheduled reserved instances**: These are available to launch within the time windows you reserve. This options allows you to match you capacity reservation to a predictable recurring schedule that only requires a fraction of a day, a week, or a month.

#### Spot:

Enables you to bid whatever price you want for instance capacity, providing for even greater savings if your applications have flexible start and end times.

- Is useful for:
	- Applications that have flexible start and end times.
	- Applications that are only feasible at very low compute prices.
	- Users with urgent computing needs for large amounts of additional capacity.

#### Dedicated Hosts:

Physical EC2 server dedicated for your use. Dedicated Hosts can help you reduce cost by allowing you to use your existing server-bound software licenses.

- Is useful for:
	- Useful for regulatory requirements that may not support multi-tenant virtualization.
	- Great for licensing which does not support multi-tenancy or cloud deployments.
	- Can be purchased on-demand. (hourly)
	- Can be purchased as a reservation for up to 70% off the on-demand price.

## Instance types

| Family  | Speciality | Use case | 
| --- | --- | --- |
| A1  | Arm-based workloads  | Scale-out workloads such a web servers  |
| C5  | Compute optimized  | CPU intensive Apps/DBs  |
| D2  | Dense storage  | Fileservers/Data Warehousing/Hadoop  |
| F1  | Field programmable gate array  | Genomics reseach, financial analytics, real-time video processing, big data, etc.  |
| G3  | Graphics intensive  | Video encoding/3D Application streaming  |
| H1  | High disk throughput  | MapReduce-based workloads, distributed file systems such as HDFS and MapR-FS  |
| I3  | High speed storage  | NoSQL DBs, Data Warehousing, etc.  |
| M5  | General Purpose  | Application servers  |
| P3  | Graphics/General purpose GPU  | Machine learning, bit coin mining, etc.  |
| R5  | Memory Optimized  | Memory intensive Apps/DBs  |
| T3  | Lowest cost, general purpose  | Web servers/Small DBs  |
| U-6TB1  | Bare Metal  | Bare metal capabilities that eliminate virtualization overhead  |
| X1  | Memory optimized  | SAP HANA/Apache, Spark, etc.  |
| Z1D  | High compute capacity and a high memory footprint  | Ideal for electronic design automation (EDA) and certain relational database workloads with high per-core licensing costs  |

#### Types-Mnemonic:

- **A**: Arm-based workloads.
- **C**: For compute.
- **D**: For density.
- **F**: For FPGA.
- **G**: Graphics.
- **H**: High disk throughput.
- **I**: For IOPS.
- **M**: Main choice for general purpose apps.
- **P**: Graphics. (think pics)
- **R**: For RAM.
- **T**: Cheap general purpose. (think T2 micro)
- **U**: Bare metal.
- **X**: Extreme memory.
- **Z**: Extreme memory and CPU.